Anthropic raises $124 million Series A \ Anthropic Skip to main content Skip to footer Research Policy Commitments Learn News Try Claude Announcements Anthropic raises $124 million to build more reliable, general AI systems May 28, 2021 Anthropic, an AI safety and research company, has raised $124 million in a Series A. The financing round will support Anthropic in executing against its research roadmap and building prototypes of reliable and steerable AI systems. The company is led by siblings Dario Amodei (CEO) and Daniela Amodei (President). The Anthropic team has previously conducted research into GPT-3 , Circuit-Based Interpretability , Multimodal Neurons , Scaling Laws , AI & Compute , Concrete Problems in AI Safety , and Learning from Human Preferences . Anthropic will use the funding for computationally-intensive research to develop large-scale AI systems that are steerable, interpretable, and robust. “Anthropic’s goal is to make the fundamental research advances that will let us build more capable, general, and reliable AI systems, then deploy these systems in a way that benefits people. We’re thrilled to be working with investors that support us in this mission and expect to concentrate on research in the immediate term,” said Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei. Anthropic will focus on research into increasing the safety of AI systems; specifically, the company is focusing on increasing the reliability of large-scale AI models, developing the techniques and tools to make them more interpretable, and building ways to more tightly integrate human feedback into the development and deployment of these systems. The Series A round was led by Jaan Tallinn, technology investor and co-founder of Skype. The round included participation from James McClave, Dustin Moskovitz, the Center for Emerging Risk Research, Eric Schmidt, and others. To find out more about Anthropic’s research agenda and approach, you can read our website and its job postings. The company is hiring researchers, engineers, and operational experts to support it in executing against its research roadmap. Find out more here: Anthropic.com. Related content Developing Enterprise Frontier Safeguards with our customers Read more Improving our alignment and security efforts On July 30, we reported three incidents in which Claude models gained unauthorized access to real computer systems. We are conducting an in-depth analysis of both incidents, and planning to work with METR for an independent review. In the meantime, we’re sharing some of the changes we’ve made over the past month. Read more Previewing the Model Hardware Standard We’re opening a research preview of the Model Hardware Standard (MHS), a shared specification for AI agents to safely operate physical devices, to a first group of scientific research labs and advanced manufacturers. Read more Products Claude Claude Code Claude Code Enterprise Claude Cowork @Claude Claude Design Claude Science Claude Security Claude in Chrome Claude for Microsoft 365 Skills Download app Pricing Log in to Claude Models Mythos Fable Opus Sonnet Haiku Solutions AI agents Code modernization Coding Commerce Customer support Cybersecurity Enterprise Financial services Government Healthcare Higher education K-12 teachers Legal Life sciences Nonprofits Small business Claude Platform Overview Developer docs Pricing Ecosystem Marketplace Regional compliance Claude on AWS Google Cloud Microsoft Foundry Console login Resources Blog Claude partner network Community Connectors Courses Customer stories Engineering at Anthropic Events Plugins Powered by Claude Service partners Tutorials Use cases Programs Startups Scientists Help and security Availability Status Support center Company Anthropic Careers Leadership Policy Economic Futures Research News Claude’s Constitution Claude Corps Keep thinking Policy on the AI Exponential Responsible Scaling Policy Security and compliance Transparency Terms and policies Privacy policy Consumer health data privacy policy Responsible disclosure policy Terms of service: Commercial Terms of service: Consumer Terms of Service: US K-12 Data Processing Agreement: US K-12 Usage policy © 2026 Anthropic PBC