About | The Audacious Project An initiative of About News Grantees Apply Impact Follow us An initiative of About A collaborative Approach to funding big ideas Introducing the Audacious Project 02:40 The Audacious Project is a collaborative funding initiative catalyzing social impact on a grand scale. Every year we select and nurture a group of big, bold solutions to the world’s most urgent challenges, and with the support of an inspiring group of donors and supporters, come together to get them launched. Housed at TED, the nonprofit with a long track record of surfacing ideas worth spreading, and with support from leading social impact advisor The Bridgespan Group, the funding collective is comprised of several respected organizations and individuals in philanthropy. ‍ ‍ ‍ Our goal is to match bold ideas with catalytic resources. We encourage the world’s inspirational changemakers to dream bigger than ever before. Help shape their best ideas into viable multi-year plans. Present those solutions in a compelling way to potential supporters. The Process Every year, we work with proven changemakers to surface their boldest ideas for tackling global problems. Sourcing & review Projects are sourced from public applications and a global network of partners and donors. They are narrowed down to a group of finalists whose ideas are representative of a broad range of geographies and issue areas while elevating leaders with proximity to the communities they serve. Idea shaping & investment support Each finalist project goes through a rigorous due diligence, ideation and investment support process, to ensure their proposal is achievable and compelling. Funding & launch Finalist projects are presented privately to groups of donors and are then publicly unveiled at TED. Funded projects then pursue their plans and share regular updates on key milestones reached with donors and the public. Partners & Individuals We would like to recognize the many parties who have come together to make The Audacious Project possible. They have contributed in various roles: as donors, thought partners, in project sourcing, due diligence, as catalysts, and more. 10X Better Foundation Acton Family Giving Additional Ventures AKO Foundation Anne Wojcicki Foundation Arrow Impact Ballmer Group Barbara and Amos Hostetter Cheryl and Jahm Najafi Family Children’s Investment Fund Foundation Chris Larsen and Lyna Lam Climate Lead Craig and Susan McCaw Crankstart Dalio Philanthropies Delta Philanthropies Dovetail Impact Foundation ELMA Philanthropies Emerson Collective Gates Foundation Good Ventures Growald Climate Fund Hansjörg Wyss and Rosamund Zander High Tide Foundation James Family Charitable Foundation Jay and Michaela (Mikey) Hoag Jeff and Marieke Rothschild Joe and Clara Tsai Foundation Joe Gebbia Laura and Gary Lauder and Family Laura & John Arnold Lyda Hill Philanthropies MacArthur Foundation MacKenzie Scott Mike and Sukey Novogratz Molly and Bill Ford Nathan and Elizabeth Blecharczyk Nat Simons and Laura Baxter-Simons Oak Foundation Overdeck Family Foundation Pivotal Ventures Quadrature Climate Foundation Reed Hastings & Patty Quillin Rippleworks Foundation Robertson Foundation Science Philanthropy Alliance Seadream Family Foundation Sea Grape Foundation Skip Foundation Skoll Foundation Someland Foundation Steve and Genevieve Jurvetson The Bridgespan Group The Just Trust The Patchwork Collective The Samueli Foundation The Tepper Foundation UBS Optimus Foundation Valhalla Foundation Virgin Unite Team Contact us Adrienne DiCasparro Managing Director, Donor Community Alexandra Tillmann Director, Brand and Communications Angelina Njoku Associate Director, Discovery & Insight Anna Verghese Executive Director Crystal Yang Director, Donor Community Deonta Wortham Chief of Staff Diana Reynoso Associate, Portfolio Impact Gabby Rivera Donor Community Associate Hasiba Haq Associate Director, Portfolio Impact João Martinho Director of Evaluation & Learning, Portfolio Impact Karen Andrade Director, Portfolio Impact Kylerose Delaney Specialist, Learning and Evaluation Lilah Doblin Program Associate, Portfolio Impact Lucien Chan Managing Director, Portfolio Impact Max Richards Director, Discovery & Insight Paula-Raye O'Sullivan Executive Assistant & Operations Associate Rebecca Gonzalez Manager, Discovery & Insight Serena Fu Associate Director, Cycle Operations Tanvi Monga Director, Portfolio Impact Reviewers We are deeply appreciative of the many individuals who helped review the bold ideas submitted for this cycle. While the pool of reviewers changes cycle-to-cycle, their diverse array of insights deeply enriches our understanding of the potential of the ideas. Along with continued support from our TED colleagues collaborators and various partners, the perspectives shared by the extended network of experts listed below are invaluable to the process. Neha Agarwal Kathryn Baltes Bridget Baumgartner Clara Bennett David Biello Marina Campos Adam Cohen Celina de Sola Edith Elliott Rebecca Firth Caroline FitzGerald Rachel Gasana Audrey Glynn Roni Goldshmid David Gruber Adrian Haugabrook Becca Heller Safeena Husain Gautam John Adam Jones Natasha Joshi Lia Kelinsky-Jones Akhila Kosaraju Aarathi Krishnan David Kroodsma Jess Kutch Lucy Lake Brendan Lehan Emma Leiken SaraT (ST) Mayer Lisa McCandless Claudia Miner Nate Mook Kyle Muther Pradeep Nair Enyi Okebugwu Camilo Ramirez Nonette Royo Pardis Sabeti Karen Sack Rachael Sears Anjli Shah Rachana Shah Ashif Shaikh Jess Skylar Julia Solano Mary Turnipseed Maharshi Vaishnav Rachel Vas Amrita Vatsal Elisabeth Vodicka George Wang Kiah Williams Get in touch audacious@ted.com Want to learn more, or have a question? Check out our FAQs. Not finding what you need? Reach out to us. Email The Audacious Project Press and media audaciousmedia@ted.com For press information, images and media inquiries, please reach out the Audacious communications team. Email Audacious Communications An initiative of Explore Impact Grantees Apply Learn About News FAQs Connect Contact Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Subscribe for updates By subscribing, you agree to TED's Privacy Policy . Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. © 2024 TED Conferences LLC Privacy Policy Terms of Service