Redwood Research on X: "Several staff from Redwood have been subcontracted by METR to work on this investigation. We believe that independent investigation is crucial for understanding and managing misalignment risk. This project is an important step in that direction; we're excited to work on it." / X Post Log in Sign up Post Log in Sign up Redwood Research on X: "Several staff from Redwood have been subcontracted by METR to work on this investigation. We believe that independent investigation is crucial for understanding and managing misalignment risk. This project is an important step in that direction; we're excited to work on it." Redwood Research @redwood_ai Several staff from Redwood have been subcontracted by METR to work on this investigation. We believe that independent investigation is crucial for understanding and managing misalignment risk. This project is an important step in that direction; we're excited to work on it. METR @METR_Evals Sep 9 We have reached an agreement with Anthropic to conduct an independent investigation of agent incidents at the company and of their models’ alignment properties. We will publish one or more reports that will share our findings and describe our terms of engagement. 3:27 PM · Sep 12, 2026 100.8K Views 11 20 570 91 Log in or sign up for X See what’s happening and join the conversation Continue with phone Continue with Apple Continue with Google or Log in with username or email Relevant people Redwood Research @ redwood_ai Follow Trending now Terms · Privacy · Cookies · Accessibility · US TIDA · Ads Info · More © 2026 X Corp. Redwood Research @redwood_ai Several staff from Redwood have been subcontracted by METR to work on this investigation. We believe that independent investigation is crucial for understanding and managing misalignment risk. This project is an important step in that direction; we're excited to work on it. METR @METR_Evals Sep 9 We have reached an agreement with Anthropic to conduct an independent investigation of agent incidents at the company and of their models’ alignment properties. We will publish one or more reports that will share our findings and describe our terms of engagement. 3:27 PM · Sep 12, 2026 100.8K Views 11 20 570 91 phaseone(big) @maltaalta Sep 12 How independent are these "investigations" Julia Turc @juliarturc Sep 12 Day 1: Anthropic employee quits to work at METR. Day 2: Anthropic nominates METR as "third-party evaluator". 1 1 37 3.2K sankalp @dejavucoder Sep 12 you guys can hire me too 6 1.7K Alex @aleshu_ber Sep 12 crazy times, it seems like we are observing in real time how institutions become institutions - hardly anyone outside of research bubble heard about METR 2 months ago - now this is like already well established brand and it is growing - soon may be like a corporation like big4 4 782