How to Apply for Funding | Open Philanthropy Focus Areas Cause Selection Global Health & Wellbeing Effective Altruism (Global Health and Wellbeing) Farm Animal Welfare Global Aid Policy Global Health & Development Global Health R&D Global Public Health Policy Innovation Policy Land Use Reform Scientific Research Global Catastrophic Risks Biosecurity & Pandemic Preparedness Forecasting Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building Potential Risks from Advanced AI Other Areas Criminal Justice Reform (Closed) History of Philanthropy Immigration Policy Macroeconomic Stabilization Policy Grants Research & Updates Blog Posts In the News Research Reports Notable Lessons About Us Grantmaking Process How to Apply for Funding Team Contact Us Stay Updated We’re hiring! Close menu Focus Areas Cause Selection Global Health & Wellbeing Effective Altruism (Global Health and Wellbeing) Farm Animal Welfare Global Aid Policy Global Health & Development Global Health R&D Global Public Health Policy Innovation Policy Land Use Reform Scientific Research Global Catastrophic Risks Biosecurity & Pandemic Preparedness Forecasting Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building Potential Risks from Advanced AI Other Areas Criminal Justice Reform (Closed) History of Philanthropy Immigration Policy Macroeconomic Stabilization Policy Grants Research & Updates Blog Posts In the News Research Reports Notable Lessons About Us Grantmaking Process How to Apply for Funding Team Contact Us Stay Updated We’re hiring! Mobile Navigation Toggle How to Apply for Funding This page explains our grant evaluation process and lists opportunities to apply for funding from our programs. Table of Contents 1. Can I apply for a grant? 2. Opportunities for funding 2.1 The University Organizer Fellowship 2.2 Career development and transition funding 2.3 Course development grants 2.4 Funding for the translation of web content related to AI safety, global catastrophic risks, effective altruism and adjacent topics 2.5 Request for proposals: AI governance 2.6 Funding for work that builds capacity to address risks from transformative AI 2.7 Funding for programs and events on global catastrophic risk, effective altruism, and other topics 2.8 General application: Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building 3. What is your process for evaluating potential grants? 4. Do you require grantees to share information publicly? Are you willing to keep some information confidential? 1. Can I apply for a grant? In general, we expect to identify most giving opportunities via proactive searching and networking. We expect to fund very few proposals that come to us via unsolicited contact . As such, we have no formal process for accepting such proposals and may not respond to inquiries. (Note that we do not accept any unsolicited proposals for work related to Immigration Policy or Macroeconomic Stabilization Policy.) If you would like to suggest that we consider a grant — whether for your project or someone else’s — please contact us . We publish a good deal of information on the types of work we seek to fund and why. We recommend reviewing this information before contacting us. A good starting point is our list of focus areas . We also encourage potential Farm Animal Welfare grant applicants to read this guide . 2. Opportunities for funding While we almost never fund unsolicited proposals, we do run programs that solicit funding requests from individuals, groups, and organizations. If any of these sound like a good fit, we strongly encourage you to apply! 2.1 The University Organizer Fellowship This fellowship provides funding for individuals who want to direct or support university student groups focused on topics relevant to reducing global catastrophic risks or otherwise improving the long-term future, including effective altruism, longtermism, rationality, or specific cause areas. Individuals are eligible for funding at any university and may apply without a particular university in mind. See the full post for the application link and more details on the program. There is no application deadline; we will assess applications on a rolling basis. 2.2 Career development and transition funding This program aims to provide support – in the form of funding for graduate study, unpaid internships, self-study, career transition and exploration periods, and other activities relevant to building career capital – for individuals at any career stage who want to pursue careers that could help to reduce global catastrophic risks or otherwise improve the long-term future. See the full post for the application link and more details on the program. Applications are open until further notice and will be assessed on a rolling basis. 2.3 Course development grants This program aims to provide support to academics for the development of university courses (including online courses) on a range of topics related to Open Philanthropy’s work to reduce global catastrophic risks. While we are primarily looking to fund new courses, we are also accepting proposals from applicants who want to convert in-person courses into freely-available online courses. See the full post for application links and more details on the program. There is no application deadline; we will assess applications on a rolling basis. 2.4 Funding for the translation of web content related to AI safety, global catastrophic risks, effective altruism and adjacent topics We’re interested in helping more people find high-quality content — books, blog posts, papers, podcasts, videos, articles, etc. — on topics relevant to reducing global catastrophic risks or otherwise improving the long-term future. These include broad topics like effective altruism, global catastrophic risks, longtermism, and rationality, as well as object-level content on cause areas like AI alignment and governance, biosecurity, animal welfare, global health, and so on. A lot of content like this is only available in English or a few other world languages. This limits how many people it can reach. For this reason, we’d like to fund work that leads to EA-related content getting translated from English into other languages. We’re looking for individuals or teams working on this full-time as part of an ambitious project. See this post for more details, and apply using this form . There is no application deadline; we will assess applications on a rolling basis. 2.5 Request for proposals: AI governance We are looking to fund work across six subject areas related to AI governance: technical AI governance, policy development, frontier company policy, international AI governance, law, and strategic analysis and threat modeling. Anyone is eligible to apply, including those working in academia, nonprofits, industry, or independently. We will evaluate expressions of interest on a rolling basis. See this page for the application link and more details on the RFP. 2.6 Funding for work that builds capacity to address risks from transformative AI We’re interested in funding capacity-building projects aimed at addressing risks from advanced AI. By “capacity-building”, we mean projects that: Help new talent get into work focused on addressing risks from transformative AI. Including people from academic or professional fields outside computer science or machine learning. Support existing talent in this field (e.g. via events that help build professional networks). Contribute to the discourse about transformative AI and its possible effects, positive and negative. See the full post for the application link and more details on the program. There is no application deadline; we will assess applications on a rolling basis. 2.7 Funding for programs and events on global catastrophic risk, effective altruism, and other topics We’re seeking to fund programs and events in a variety of areas of interest to Open Philanthropy — including effective altruism, global catastrophic risks, biosecurity, AI for epistemics, forecasting, and other areas. We’re open to funding programs or events aimed at individuals at any career stage, and with a wide range of potential purposes, including teaching new skills, providing new career opportunities, offering mentorship, or facilitating networking. See the full post for the application link and more details on the program. There is no application deadline; we will assess applications on a rolling basis. 2.8 General application: Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building If you’d like to apply for funding from Open Philanthropy’s Global Catastrophic Risk Capacity Building (GCRCB) team and don’t fit one of the other programs on this page, fill out this form . 3. What is your process for evaluating potential grants? Our process for evaluating potential grants is evolving, and it varies quite a bit from case to case. When we are considering a grant, one of our staff will serve as the primary investigator and contact person for the potential grantee. This person will explain the process we intend to follow for evaluating the particular grant and answer any questions. In general, our process involves the following: The investigator will have one or more initial conversations with the potential grantee, to get a basic picture of the case for the grant. The investigator will aim to answer key questions about the grant, through a mix of conversations with the potential grantee, requests for written materials, and conversations with others. The depth with which we investigate potential grants varies; it will be higher for grants that are larger and/or likely to require more involvement from our staff. The investigator will write up their view of the case for the grant, so that they can discuss it internally and come to a decision. Grants typically will be recommended to the Open Philanthropy Project fund, an advised fund of the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. In some cases, we make grants directly from the Open Philanthropy Project 501(c)(3) or make recommendations to Good Ventures, the Open Philanthropy Action Fund (a 501(c)(4) social welfare organization), or to other entities. Throughout the process, the investigator will aim to keep the grantee posted on the likelihood of receiving a grant, the likely timeline, and the likely amount of investigation that will be needed. 4. Do you require grantees to share information publicly? Are you willing to keep some information confidential? We seek to share a significant amount of information about our work, and the work we support, publicly. All else equal, we prefer making grants about which we can share more information. With that said, we aim to balance our commitment to information-sharing with our commitment to maximizing our impact and building strong and productive partnerships. That means: We never share private information from another organization or individual without permission. We share drafts of our grant writeups (upon request) and blog posts with the people and organizations discussed therein and invite their suggestions. We work with our partners to make key information public without unnecessarily undermining their work. We write more thoroughly about major decisions and grants than minor ones. If we encountered an outstanding giving opportunity where the costs of information sharing significantly outweighed the benefits, we would fund the opportunity and refrain from discussing it. But because we believe the benefits of information sharing are substantial, we would set the bar accordingly high. Careers Press Kit Governance Privacy Policy Stay Updated Mailing Address Open Philanthropy 182 Howard Street #225 San Francisco, CA 94105 Email info@openphilanthropy.org Media Inquiries media@openphilanthropy.org Anonymous Feedback Feedback Form © Open Philanthropy 2024 Except where otherwise noted, this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial 4.0 International License. If you'd like to translate this content into another language, please get in touch ! We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT