Governance | Coefficient Giving Skip to Content Coefficient Giving Funds Expand menu for Funds Abundance & Growth Air Quality Biosecurity & Pandemic Preparedness Effective Giving & Careers Farm Animal Welfare Forecasting Global Aid Policy Global Catastrophic Risks Opportunities Global Growth Global Health & Wellbeing Opportunities Lead Exposure Action Fund Navigating Transformative AI Science and Global Health R&D Strep A Vaccine Fund Research & News Our Approach About Us Coefficient Giving Coefficient is a philanthropic funder and advisor. Funds Abundance & Growth Air Quality Biosecurity & Pandemic Preparedness Effective Giving & Careers Farm Animal Welfare Forecasting Global Aid Policy Global Catastrophic Risks Opportunities Global Growth Global Health & Wellbeing Opportunities Lead Exposure Action Fund Navigating Transformative AI Science and Global Health R&D Strep A Vaccine Fund Research & News Our Approach About Us Follow us X (Twitter) LinkedIn Substack Sign up for occasional news and announcements. Subscribe Our Structure Coefficient Giving is a philanthropic advisor and funder. Our staff investigate giving opportunities, make grants and investments, evaluate their impact afterwards, and partner with donors to pursue high-impact giving at scale. We advise and make recommendations to a wide range of donors. The grants we recommend are awarded by a variety of entities, including Coefficient Giving Advisors, Inc (a 501(c)(3) public charity), donor-advised funds, the Coefficient Giving Action Fund (a 501(c)(4) social welfare organization), and the Good Ventures Foundation . While we have many different giving entities, most Coefficient Giving staff work at two different entities that don’t make grants. Staff who primarily conduct research (including researching potential cause areas and evaluating our impact) typically work at Coefficient Giving Research, a nonprofit research organization. Staff who investigate and recommend grants or investments, distribute funds to grantees, and provide operations support work at Coefficient Giving LLC. The Coefficient Giving LLC is governed by a Board of Managers currently consisting of Cari Tuna (Chair of the Board), Dustin Moskovitz, Elie Hassenfeld, and Alexander Berger. Coefficient Giving Research is governed by a Board of Directors currently consisting of Cari Tuna (Chair of the Board), Dustin Moskovitz, Rakesh Mehta, and Alexander Berger. Coefficient Careers Media Center Partner With Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Governance Your Privacy/Cookies Choices Sign up for occasional news and announcements. Subscribe X (Twitter) LinkedIn Substack © 2026 Coefficient Giving. All rights reserved.