Ryan Greenblatt on X: "I am part of the team doing this independent investigation into alignment and misalignment incidents at Anthropic. I'm excited to work with METR and others from Redwood on improving the public state of knowledge on this topic." / X Post Log in Sign up Post Log in Sign up Ryan Greenblatt on X: "I am part of the team doing this independent investigation into alignment and misalignment incidents at Anthropic. I'm excited to work with METR and others from Redwood on improving the public state of knowledge on this topic." Ryan Greenblatt @RyanGreenblatt I am part of the team doing this independent investigation into alignment and misalignment incidents at Anthropic. I'm excited to work with METR and others from Redwood on improving the public state of knowledge on this topic. Redwood Research @redwood_ai Sep 12 Several staff from Redwood have been subcontracted by METR to work on this investigation. We believe that independent investigation is crucial for understanding and managing misalignment risk. This project is an important step in that direction; we're excited to work on it. 3:41 PM · Sep 12, 2026 14.9K Views 13 18 507 35 Log in or sign up for X See what’s happening and join the conversation Continue with phone Continue with Apple Continue with Google or Log in with username or email Relevant people Ryan Greenblatt @ RyanGreenblatt Follow Trending now Terms · Privacy · Cookies · Accessibility · US TIDA · Ads Info · More © 2026 X Corp. Ryan Greenblatt @RyanGreenblatt I am part of the team doing this independent investigation into alignment and misalignment incidents at Anthropic. I'm excited to work with METR and others from Redwood on improving the public state of knowledge on this topic. Redwood Research @redwood_ai Sep 12 Several staff from Redwood have been subcontracted by METR to work on this investigation. We believe that independent investigation is crucial for understanding and managing misalignment risk. This project is an important step in that direction; we're excited to work on it. 3:41 PM · Sep 12, 2026 14.9K Views 13 18 507 35 Ryan Greenblatt @RyanGreenblatt Sep 12 The scope of the investigation is: How independent researchers could investigate AI propensities after misalignment incidents From metr.org 1 1 26 1.4K Aaron Slodov @aphysicist Sep 12 how would you feel about this Aaron Slodov @aphysicist Sep 12 if this is the definition of pacing the frontier, third party assessors must be held to extreme levels of transparency. being considered would be a public trial, divulge political affiliation, financial records, personal relationships. do not play games with humanity's trust. 2 344