METR (formerly called ARC Evals) · Giving What We Can Open main menu Donate Cause Areas Global Health Save and improve lives Animal Welfare Reduce animal suffering Existential Risk Protect future generations Giving Tools Major Gift Support for major gifts Fundraisers Multiply your impact with others Tax Deductibility Claim tax relief on donations Bequests Leave a lasting legacy Global Health & Wellbeing Animal Welfare Global Catastrophic Risks Best Charities Our research team's top recommendations for 2026 Learn more → Pledge Pledges 10% Pledge Give 10% of your income Trial Pledge Start with 1% for a year Company Pledge For businesses and teams Community Members See who's pledged Live Motivations Why members give Get Involved Find your community Hear their stories From people who decided to give more effectively Learn more → Resources Learn Effective Giving 101 Introduction to giving effectively Research & Approach How we evaluate charities Guides & Resources In-depth guides and articles Explore How Rich Am I? Compare your global income Blog Latest updates and insights FAQs Common questions answered Birth Lottery If you were born again, how would your life change? Learn more → About Who We Are About Us Our mission and history Team Meet our team Governance Our global structure Our Work Impact What we've achieved Transparency How we operate Careers Work with us Celebrating 2025's impact See what we achieved as a community Learn more → Donate Sign in Donate Pledge Resources About Donate Sign in Charities METR (formerly called ARC Evals) METR (formerly called ARC Evals) is the evaluations project at the Alignment Research Center . Its work assesses whether cutting-edge AI systems could pose catastrophic risks to civilization. Website Reducing global catastrophic risks What problem is METR working on? As AI systems become more powerful, it becomes increasingly important to ensure these systems are safe and aligned with our interests. A growing number of experts are concerned that future AI systems pose an existential risk to humanity — and according to one study of machine learning researchers conducted by AI Impacts, the median respondent reported believing that there is a 5% chance of an “ extremely bad outcome (e.g. human extinction) ”. One way to prepare for this is to be able to evaluate current systems and receive warning signs if new risks emerge . What does METR do? METR is contributing to the following AI governance approach: Before a new large-scale system is released, assess whether it is capable of potentially catastrophic activities. If so, require strong guarantees that the system will not carry out such activities. METR's current work focuses primarily on evaluating capabilities (the first step above), in particular a capability they call autonomous replication — the ability of an AI system to survive on a cloud server, obtain money and compute resources, and use those resources to make more copies of itself. Evals was given early access to OpenAI’s GPT-4 and Anthropic’s Claude to assess them for safety. They determined that these systems are not capable of “ fairly basic steps towards autonomous replication ” — but still, some of the steps they can take are already somewhat alarming. One highly publicised example from METR’s assessment was that GPT-4 successfully pretended to be a vision-impaired human to convince a TaskRabbit worker to solve a CAPTCHA code. Suppose AI systems could autonomously replicate, what are the risks? They could become extremely powerful tools for malicious actors. They could replicate, accrue power and resources, and use these to further their own goals. Without guarantees these goals are aligned with our own, this could have catastrophic — potentially even existential — consequences for humanity. 1 Therefore, METR is also exploring developing safety standards that could ensure that even systems capable or powerful enough to be dangerous won’t be. This could include security against theft by people who would use the system for harm, monitoring so that any surprising and unintended behaviour is quickly noticed and addressed, and sufficient alignment with human interests such that the system would not choose to take catastrophic actions (for example, reliably refusing to assist users seeking to use the system for harm). What evidence is there of METR's effectiveness? 1. After investigating METR's strategy and track record, Longview Philanthropy recommended a grant of $220,000 from its public fund in 2023. In reference to this grant, Longview shared that they thought METR had among the most promising and direct paths to impact on AI governance: “test models to see if they’re capable of doing extremely dangerous things; if they are, require strong guarantees that they won’t.” There are a few other positive indicators of the organisation’s cost-effectiveness: METR is already partnered with OpenAI (the creators of ChatGPT and GPT-4) and Anthropic (the creators of Claude). This indicates a proof of concept of their primary work evaluating capabilities of AI systems prior to their release. METR has leadership with highly relevant experience and credentials: The project is led by Beth Barnes , a researcher who previously worked at DeepMind and OpenAI. The Alignment Research Center (where METR was incubated) is led by Paul Christiano , who helped pioneer the main safety mechanism that frontier labs such as OpenAI, Anthropic, and DeepMind use to make their AI systems better aligned with human values. As of July 2023, METR could make good use of millions of dollars in additional funding over the next 18 months. Note: At the time of Longview's grant, METR was the evaluations project at the Alignment Research Center. It now a standalone non profit. Please note that GWWC does not evaluate individual charities. Our recommendations are based on the research of third-party, impact-focused charity evaluators our research team has found to be particularly well-suited to help donors do the most good per dollar, according to their recent evaluator investigations. Our other supported programs are those that align with our charitable purpose — they are working on a high-impact problem and take a reasonably promising approach (based on publicly-available information). At Giving What We Can, we focus on the effectiveness of an organisation's work -- what the organisation is actually doing and whether their programs are making a big difference. Some others in the charity recommendation space focus instead on the ratio of admin costs to program spending, part of what we’ve termed the “overhead myth.” See why overhead isn’t the full story and learn more about our approach to charity evaluation . Your current selection Funds / Organisations you select will show up here Allocate donation Footer A better way to make a better world. Newsletter Join our monthly newsletter with stories and updates from across the effective giving community. Get started Learn about effective giving, explore charity research, and discover how to maximise your impact. Effective giving 101 Resources and guides Take action Give effectively to the world's most impactful charities. Your donation can save lives and reduce suffering. Donate Pledge About About Us Contact Us Our Team Our Members Our Events Our Mistakes Donate Learn Our best charities Take A Giving Pledge Get Involved Make A Bequest Videos, Books, Podcasts FAQs Media Press Kit Media coverage Case studies: People who pledge to give Giving What We Can is a community of effective givers. We inspire people to give more, and give more effectively. Facebook X/Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn TikTok Giving What We Can UK (GWWC UK) is a charity in England and Wales (with registered charity number 1207964, registered company number 15442716, and is also a Netherlands registered tax-deductible entity ANBI 827647232). Giving What We Can USA Inc. (GWWC USA) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit with EIN 93-3629215. GWWC UK and GWWC USA are separate charities that collaborate closely. For other locations read advice on tax-deductibility by country . © Giving What We Can – all rights reserved. Please contact us if you wish to redistribute, translate, or adapt this work. Privacy policy | Terms and Conditions | Cookie Notice Structured content powered by Sanity.io