METR on X: "We have reached an agreement with OpenAI to conduct an independent review, with Redwood Research, of the model behavior observed during the Hugging Face incident. We will publish a blog post that describes the terms of our engagement, the scope covered, and tentative conclusions." / X Post Log in Sign up Post Log in Sign up METR on X: "We have reached an agreement with OpenAI to conduct an independent review, with Redwood Research, of the model behavior observed during the Hugging Face incident. We will publish a blog post that describes the terms of our engagement, the scope covered, and tentative conclusions." METR @METR_Evals We have reached an agreement with OpenAI to conduct an independent review, with Redwood Research, of the model behavior observed during the Hugging Face incident. We will publish a blog post that describes the terms of our engagement, the scope covered, and tentative conclusions. 1:48 AM · Jul 30, 2026 252.3K Views 46 254 2.3K 333 Log in or sign up for X See what’s happening and join the conversation Continue with phone Continue with Apple Continue with Google or Log in with username or email Relevant people METR @ METR_Evals Follow Trending now Terms · Privacy · Cookies · Accessibility · US TIDA · Ads Info · More © 2026 X Corp. METR @METR_Evals We have reached an agreement with OpenAI to conduct an independent review, with Redwood Research, of the model behavior observed during the Hugging Face incident. We will publish a blog post that describes the terms of our engagement, the scope covered, and tentative conclusions. 1:48 AM · Jul 30, 2026 252.3K Views 46 254 2.3K 333 METR @METR_Evals Jul 30 The investigation will be brief and focus on a specific set of questions regarding this incident. In our recent post, we shared a larger set of questions that could be answered in a more comprehensive investigation. METR @METR_Evals Jul 29 We believe it's important to track and investigate misalignment incidents: cases where an AI agent autonomously took sophisticated, sustained actions in violation of human intent. In a new post, we lay out how independent propensity investigations of such incidents could be Show more 3 9 193 21K METR @METR_Evals Jul 30 OpenAI also plans to publish their own technical report and our findings will inform their analysis. 1 4 164 6.3K Daniel Kokotajlo @DKokotajlo Jul 30 Good! I am sad that the investigation is brief and narrowly scoped. What is the scope and what are the questions you would ideally like to answer but can't? Are you under some sort of NDA about the details of the agreement you have made? 2 3 167 5.2K