FTX Seeks Bankruptcy Court Approval to Sell $1.4 Billion Stake in AI Startup Anthropic - Unchained Sponsored by Login News Podcasts Unchained The Chopping Block ₿ITS + BIP$ Uneasy Money Dex in the City Newsletters Learn Guides Videos Shop Careers About Contact News Podcasts Unchained The Chopping Block ₿ITS + BIP$ Uneasy Money Dex in the City Newsletters Learn Guides Videos Shop Careers About Contact FTX Seeks Bankruptcy Court Approval to Sell $1.4 Billion Stake in AI Startup Anthropic The bankrupt crypto exchange could repay creditors and customers from the proceeds obtained by selling the 8% stake. Selling its stake in Anthropic could allow the bankrupt exchange to distribute $1.4 billion to creditors and customers. (Shutterstock) Brandy Betz Posted February 5, 2024 at 12:59 pm EST. Bankrupt crypto exchange FTX wants judicial approval to sell its nearly 8% stake in artificial intelligence (AI) research company Anthropic, according to a motion filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware on Friday. The company separately requested an accelerated deliberation period for the sale. FTX subsidiary Clifton Bay paid $500 million for a stake in Anthropic in Oct. 2021. However, Anthropic subsequently closed several funding rounds and issued new shares to investors, which diluted FTX’s stake. As of January, FTX held approximately 7.84% of Anthropic equity on a fully diluted basis. FTX now wants to sell its stake as quickly as possible to both cash in on the popularity of AI projects and to avoid further dilution if Anthropic raises more money. The sale, if approved, could occur through either private sales or auctions to qualified bidders. The price of the shares on sale won’t be disclosed to the public. “The public disclosure of the Reference Price could be detrimental to the Debtors’ goal of obtaining higher and better offers for the Anthropic Shares,” wrote the FTX lawyers in the filing. FTX also asked the court to hear the sale motion at the upcoming hearing on February 22. In December, Reuters reported that Anthropic was looking to raise $750 million in a funding round at an $18.4 billion valuation. If that valuation is accurate, FTX’s stake is worth about $1.4 billion. The money would help FTX repay its obligations. Last week, the company said it had ended its attempts to restart the exchange and would seek to pay back customers and creditors in full, though some observers criticized the formula to fulfill repayment. FTX filed for bankruptcy in Nov. 2022 after a CoinDesk report revealed a liquidity crisis caused by the misappropriation of client funds. A year later, FTX founder and former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried was found guilty on seven counts related to fraud and conspiracy. His sentencing is scheduled for March 28. Read more: FTX Hackers Revealed? $400 Million Stolen From Crypto Exchange By Three SIM-Swap Scammers Posted in: Business Tagged in: Artificial Intelligence FTX ftx bankruptcy Load More SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Get daily crypto updates with our free newsletter: news, episodes, market updates, recommended reads, and memes. Upgrade to Premium for exclusive interviews, a subscriber-only chat group, and show transcripts. Unchained Your no-hype resource for all things crypto Over 17,000 subscribers SUBSCRIBE TO GET THE LATEST EPISODE Get the hottest takes from Laura, her guests, and The Chopping Block crew on all the news in crypto! Apple Podcasts Youtube Spotify Your no-hype resource for all things crypto Categories Business Regulation Bitcoin Ethereum DeFi Tech NFTs Podcasts Unchained Podcast The Chopping Block Bits + Bips Uneasy Money Dex in the City Pages What’s Poppin’ Newsletters Learn Guides Videos Shop Careers About Contact © COPYRIGHT 2026 LAURA SHIN MEDIA LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Terms + Conditions Policies The Chopping Block Disclosures Credits Site Design + Development Alchemy + Aim Stay Ahead in Crypto Get daily news and insights — straight to your inbox Enter your email to subscribe for free! X