Grants - Macroscopic Ventures Macroscopic Ventures Grants This year, we plan to give up to $100m in total to organizations and individuals in our focus areas . In future years, we expect to further increase our grantmaking volume. Below is a selection of the organizations we have supported. Arq Foundation Arq Foundation works to prepare Europe for transformative AI: resilient to its risks, equipped to shape it, and able to share its benefits. One of the marquee projects Arq contributed to is Europe 2031, a scenario on Europe and AI. Visit website → Center for Mind, Brain, and Consciousness (NYU) The NYU Center for Mind, Brain, and Consciousness, directed by David Chalmers and Ned Block, is devoted to foundational issues in the mind-brain sciences. We have supported their work on AI consciousness and welfare. Visit website → Center for Mind, Ethics, and Policy (NYU) The NYU Center for Mind, Ethics, and Policy is dedicated to advancing understanding of the consciousness, sentience, sapience, and moral, legal, and political status of nonhumans, including animals and AI systems. Visit website → Center on Long-Term Risk The Center on Long-Term Risk conducts research aimed at ensuring that emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence do not risk causing suffering on an unprecedented scale. Visit website → Consortium for Digital Sentience Research and Applied Work We have supported Longview Philanthropy’s Consortium for Digital Sentience Research and Applied Work. Visit website → Cooperative AI Foundation We helped seed the Cooperative AI Foundation through a $15,000,000 commitment. Their mission is to support research that will improve the cooperative intelligence of advanced AI for the benefit of all. Visit website → Delta Institute Delta Institute is an independent think tank committed to progress in the Netherlands. Working together with politics and government, it contributes to a strong digital government, an innovative economy that serves the public interest, and a Netherlands that remains competitive and socially resilient during the AI transition. This grant was for AI governance. Visit website → Eleos AI Eleos AI conducts research on the potential sentience and wellbeing of AI systems, aiming to inform policy, guide labs, and grow the field of AI moral patienthood. Visit website → ETH AI Center's AI Fellowship Program The AI Fellowship Program at the ETH AI Center, hosted by the ETH Zurich Foundation, enables highly talented doctoral and postdoctoral students to accelerate progress in interdisciplinary research across robotics, digital health, learning sciences, natural language recognition, and more. Visit website → Foundations of Cooperative AI Lab (CMU) We made a $3,000,000 commitment to Carnegie Mellon University to establish the Foundations of Cooperative AI Lab headed by Vincent Conitzer. The lab’s research agenda is on creating foundations of game theory appropriate for advanced, autonomous AI agents – with a focus on achieving cooperation. Visit website → Intelligence Security Laboratories Intelligence Security Laboratories is a nonprofit research lab focused on implementation-driven R&D for high-security AI systems. Their work bridges the gap between theoretical security requirements and practical deployments. Visit website → Longview Philanthropy - Request for Proposals on Hardware-Enabled Mechanisms We have supported Longview Philanthropy’s request for proposals for work on hardware-enabled mechanisms for AI verification. Visit website → Myrias Myrias finds the largest neglected sources of animal suffering and builds whatever vehicle fits the problem by incubating from scratch and piloting interventions directly. Visit website → PRISM PRISM helps to build the field of digital minds by supporting research, raising awareness, developing talent, and organizing events and workshops to connect researchers and other experts. Visit website → Redwood Research Redwood Research is a nonprofit AI safety and security research organization working to better understand the risks that could arise if powerful AI systems purposefully act against the interests of their developers and human institutions broadly, and to develop methodologies that will allow us to manage those risks while still realizing the benefits of AI. Visit website → Rethink Priorities Rethink Priorities works to find tractable and neglected opportunities for impact across cause areas, including animal welfare, global health and development, global catastrophic risks, artificial intelligence, and more. They address the world’s most pressing issues to create meaningful, lasting change. Visit website → Rhine AI Lab Rhine AI Lab, a part of the University of Basel's Department of Mathematics and Computer Science and University College London's Centre for Artificial Intelligence, develops agentic AI systems and focuses on sequential decision making and generative AI to drive novel discoveries and build robust, intelligent systems for real-world challenges. Visit website → Simon Institute The Simon Institute works to strengthen the international governance of frontier AI, supporting governments, companies, and international institutions with research, policy advice, and capacity building for effective global coordination. Visit website → Impact Investments In addition to grants, we also make selective impact investments in socially beneficial companies. Anthropic As part of their Series A and Series B, we invested in Anthropic, an AI safety and research company. They are working on making large machine learning models more reliable, interpretable, and steerable. Visit website → Apollo Research Apollo Research is dedicated to improving our understanding of AI to mitigate risks from dangerous capabilities in advanced AI systems. Visit website → Differential Labs Differential Labs develops AI-based tools and infrastructure to help improve strategic understanding of the big-picture situation with AI. Visit website → Gray Swan Gray Swan develops tools that automatically assess the risks of AI models, plus its own AI safeguards that provide best-in-class safety and security. Visit website → Halcyon Venture Partners Halcyon Ventures creates and invests in companies that make AI safe, secure and beneficial for humanity. Visit website → Seldon Labs Seldon Lab brings together the world's most capable founders while conducting its own cutting-edge research and directly developing the existential security technologies that will define how humanity relates with general machine intelligence. Visit website → undefined 2026