About FAR.AI | Frontier Alignment Research Skip to main content Leaderboard Research Events Overview Past Events All Recordings Programs Blog About About Us Our Team Search Search Search Careers Donate Leaderboard Research Events Overview Past Events All Recordings Programs Blog About About Us Our Team Search Search Search Careers Donate FAR.AI is an AI security research and adoption non-profit We facilitate technical breakthroughs, foster global collaboration and advance global understanding of AI risks and solutions Join our team Donate now Why FAR.AI Exists At FAR.AI, we are motivated by the potential risks posed by rapid advances in AI capabilities. We work to ensure advanced AI is trustworthy, secure and beneficial for everyone. Our goal is to close the research-adoption gap by developing solutions to high-leverage technical safety challenges and scaling them to real-world deployment. Our approach emphasizes tight empirical feedback loops on real-world manifestations of large-scale AI risks. Our Operating Model Driving Adoption We operate an end-to-end pipeline from technical innovation to widespread deployment of vetted safety solutions. Foundational Research We develop novel solutions to technical challenges through our in-house research team. Field Building Our convenings and grantmaking build a broader research field around our initial ideas. Applied Research We validate the best ideas from the research field by scaling them to prototypes at near-frontier scale. Adoption We drive adoption of our research through pre-deployment testing and consulting with frontier model developers, technical capacity building with governments, and convening decision makers. Incentives We encourage investments in safety through public communications providing transparent evaluations and ranking of the safety of models, and advising governments. WHY FAR.AI What Makes Us Unique FAR.AI is built for those who want the ambition of a frontier lab, the velocity of a startup, and the impact focus of a non-profit. Join our team Adoption and impact The rigor of a frontier lab, the pace of a startup, and the mission focus of a nonprofit. Room to take risks Space to pursue ambitious, uncertain research without sacrificing freedom. Real support Infrastructure, collaborators, funding, communications, and pathways to real-world adoption. Our Team Adam Gleave Co-founder & CEO Full profile Karl Berzins Co-Founder and President Full profile Boston Nyer Chief Operating Officer Full profile Taylor Boyle Head of Finance Full profile Edward Yee Chief Growth Officer Full profile Karolina Walęcik Chief of Staff Full profile Lindsay Murachver Head of Programs Full profile Kellin Pelrine Member of Technical Staff Full profile Chris Cundy Member of Technical Staff Full profile Bri Treece Board Member Full profile View full team Research Our research explores a portfolio of high-potential agendas. Events Our events bring together global leaders in AI. Programs Our programs build the field of trustworthy and secure AI Footer Follow us Explore Research Events Programs About Team Resources All Publications All Recordings Past Events Blog Transparency Leaderboard Get Involved Donate Careers Contact Newsletter Cookies Notice: This website uses cookies to identify pages that are being used most frequently. This helps us analyze web page traffic and improve our website. We do not and will never sell user data. Read more about our cookie policy on our privacy policy . Please contact us if you have any questions. Subscribe to our newsletter Contact Details Email Address Submit Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. © {{year}} Copyright. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions