RAND AI Security Project Receives Funding Commitment Through The Audacious Project | RAND Skip to page content Toggle Menu Site-wide navigation Topics Trending International Trade Biotechnology Education Policy Ukraine Artificial Intelligence Topics Children, Families, and Communities Cyber and Data Sciences Education and Literacy Energy and Environment Health, Health Care, and Aging Homeland Security and Public Safety Infrastructure and Transportation International Affairs Law and Business National Security Science and Technology Workers and the Workplace All Topics Research & Commentary Experts About Research Divisions RAND's divisions conduct research on a uniquely broad front for clients around the globe. U.S. research divisions RAND Army Research Division RAND Education, Employment, and Infrastructure RAND Global and Emerging Risks RAND Health RAND Homeland Security Research Division RAND National Security Research Division RAND Project AIR FORCE International research divisions RAND Australia RAND Europe Services & Impact Careers Graduate School Subscribe Give Cart Toggle Search Search terms Submit RAND Press Room News Releases RAND AI Security Project Receives Funding Commitment Through The Audacious Project RAND AI Security Project Receives Funding Commitment Through The Audacious Project For Release Wednesday October 9, 2024 Canary—a Collaboration with METR—to Receive Approximately $38 Million to Study Growing Risks of Artificial Intelligence Recognizing the potential impact of advanced artificial intelligence (AI) on society, The Audacious Project, a collaborative funding initiative housed at TED, has committed approximately $38 million to RAND and METR for Canary, a new research collaboration designed to help make future AI systems safer. Selected as one of The Audacious Project's 2024 cohort of big ideas, the project aims to develop tools that all frontier AI developers can use to evaluate their systems for risks prior to release. “AI systems are advancing at unprecedented rates. Alongside the incredible potential come significant risks, many of which we don't yet fully understand,” said RAND President and CEO Jason Matheny . “RAND is researching the implications of AI across nearly every policy domain, but this project is exciting because it is the first to incorporate our evidence-based approach to assess the capabilities of frontier AI systems while still in development.” Researchers from nonpartisan, nonprofit RAND and METR, an AI evaluation research nonprofit, will each contribute to the project, building on their collective expertise in misuse risk and AI system autonomy, respectively. The project will focus on developing cutting-edge science, methodology, and tools to evaluate how risks from AI systems might manifest, and conducting predeployment evaluations of each new generation of frontier AI systems. The methodologies and tools created by the project will be shared with the wider AI research community, allowing others to build on existing research and significantly lowering the barrier to entry for newer organizations. RAND and METR will also share their findings and insights with decisionmakers to inform responsible development and deployment of AI systems. RAND researcher Ella Guest and Beth Barnes , the founder and head of research at METR will lead the research efforts for Canary. See the full scope of RAND's work on AI here . About the Audacious Project Launched in April 2018, The Audacious Project is a collaborative funding initiative that's catalyzing social impact on a grand scale. Housed at TED, the nonprofit is devoted to ideas, and with support from The Bridgespan Group, The Audacious Project convenes funders and social entrepreneurs with the goal of supporting bold solutions to the world's most urgent challenges. The funding collective is made up of respected organizations and individuals in philanthropy, including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, ELMA Philanthropies, Emerson Collective, MacKenzie Scott, Skoll Foundation, Valhalla Foundation, and more . Each year The Audacious Project supports a new cohort. The 2024 grantees are Equipo Argentino de Antropolgia, Every Cure, Food4Education, Global Methane Hub, Great Barrier Reef Foundation, Inkomoko, MapBiomas, Canary, Scaling Safety, and Transcend Education. Learn more at AudaciousProject.org . Share on LinkedIn Share on X Share on Facebook Email About RAND RAND is a research organization that develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure, healthier and more prosperous. Topics Artificial Intelligence Emerging Technologies Related Content The Rise of AI: Insights from RAND Apr 2, 2024 The Audacious Project Objective Analysis. Effective Solutions. RAND is a research organization that develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure, healthier and more prosperous. RAND is nonprofit, nonpartisan, and committed to the public interest. RAND Headquarters P.O. Box 2138 1776 Main Street Santa Monica, CA 90401-2138 RAND has offices across the U.S., in Europe, and in Australia See all RAND locations About Leadership Research Integrity Graduate School Support RAND Careers Contact Work with Us For Media For Congress Subscribe to the Policy Currents Newsletter And stay on top of the issues that matter most. Email Subscribe View all newsletters RAND on LinkedIn RAND on X RAND on Instagram RAND on Facebook RAND on YouTube RAND on Bluesky RAND on Threads Policy Minded: RAND's Flagship Podcast RAND® is a registered trademark. © 2026 RAND Corporation. Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions International Websites: 中文 العربية This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.